# Codon Usage Analyzer

This project is designed to calculate codon usage from genome sequences. The process involves several steps, including creating CDS (Coding Sequences) from genome and gene annotation files, verifying these CDS sequences, and finally calculating the codon usage.

## Steps to Use

### 1. Prepare the Genome and Annotation Files
First, obtain the complete genome sequence file in FASTA format and the gene annotation file in GTF format from JGI (Joint Genome Institute).

### 2. Create CDS Sequences
Use the `make_CDS.py` script to create CDS sequences from the provided genome and annotation files. This script processes the input files and generates the CDS sequences.

```bash
python make_CDS.py --genome your_genome_file.fasta --gtf your_annotation_file.gtf
```
### 3. Download the Created CDS
After creating the CDS sequences, download the resulting CDS file generated by the make_CDS.py script.

### 4. Verify the CDS Sequences
To ensure the created CDS sequences are correct, use the check_CDS.py script. This script converts the CDS sequences to protein sequences and compares them with the protein sequences obtained from JGI.

```bash
python check_CDS.py --cds your_cds_file.fasta --proteins your_protein_file.fasta
```

### 5. Calculate Codon Usage
If the CDS sequences are verified and found to be correct, upload the CDS file to the calc_codonusage.py script to calculate codon usage. The results will be generated in a CSV file that can be downloaded.
```bash
python calc_codonusage.py --cds your_cds_file.fasta
```

### output
```bash
amino_acid,codon, count,   freq
  F,        TTT,   63374, 0.382778761
  F,        TTC,  102189, 0.617221239
  L,        TTA,    7933, 0.019634632
...
```
# Calc_Codon_Usage
